Update 03 create episode (#5)
UCL-ARC/git-novice-vscode: episodes/03-create.md

We will help Alfredo with his new project, create a repository with all his recipes.

> First, let's create a new directory in the `Desktop` folder for our work:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, let's create a new `recipes` directory in the `Desktop` folder for our work:
```

<img src="fig/03-a-create-directory.JPG" alt="03-a-create-directory" width=50%>

We then open this newly created folder in VS Code by clicking `Open Folder`:

<img src="fig/03-a-directory-opened.JPG" alt="03-a-directory-opened" width=50%>

and then selecting the `recipes` folder:

<img src="fig/03-a-select-directory.JPG" alt="03-a-select-directory" width=50%>

Then we tell Git to make `recipes` a [repository](../learners/reference.md#repository)

> \-- a place where Git can store versions of our files. Click menu `View` and then `Source Control`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\-- a place where Git can store versions of our files. Click the `Source Control` button <img src="https://www.svgrepo.com/show/361322/source-control.svg" atl="Source Control Button" width="30px"> on the left bar (third from the top, or through the `View` menu if the bar is hidden):
```

<img src="fig/03-b-source-control-menu.JPG" alt="03-b-source-control-menu" width=50%>

Click `Initialize Repository`:

<img src="fig/03-b-initialize-repository.JPG" alt="03-b-initialize-repository" width=50%>

> and you will see `Source Control` which means the repository is created. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and you will see `Source Control` pannel which means the repository is created. 
```

Next, we will change the default branch to be called `main`.
This might be the default branch depending on your settings and version

> of git. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of git.
```

See the [setup episode](02-setup.md#default-git-branch-naming) for more information on this change.

To see branch name, ensure that `Source Control Repositories` is selected. As shown below, the branch is called "project".

> <img src="fig/03-d-source-control-repositories.JPG" alt="03-d-source-control-repositories" width=50%>

Reviewer: Why is it called project? By default, on a new installed system is either `main` or `mater`. I'd suggest to change this bit into:

```
To see the branch name, you can either see it on the bottom left corner.

<img src="fig/todo/showing the bottom bar of the vs code window>
```

The source control repository panel is not required.

> Under `Source Control Repositories`, click on the three dots of our repository `recipes`, and select `Rename Branch`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under `Source Control` the three dots menu, navigate through `Branch` and select `Rename Branch`:
```

> <img src="fig/03-d-source-control-sub-menu.JPG" alt="03-d-source-control-sub-menu" width=50%>

Reviewer: update using the source control panel

<img src="fig/03-d-rename-branch.JPG" alt="03-d-rename-branch" width=50%>

> Enter "main" and press Return to save. The branch is renamed to `main`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter "main" and press <kbd>Return</kbd> to save. The branch is renamed to `main`:
```

> <img src="fig/03-d-main.JPG" alt="03-d-main" width=50%>

Reviewer: Show the bottom left corner. No need to change it from above, as by default it won't be required, so you can link to the same image.

> We can now start using one of the most important git commands, which is particularly helpful to beginners. In the screenshot above, in the `Source Control` window, is a blue button. It will show a different command depending on the status of our repository. Under this button we will find what changes have been made in the repository and the status of this change. The information here is updated as we make changes to our repository. We will see more examples of this later. For now, remember that this `Source Control` window tells us the status of our project, and better, a list of changes in the project and options on what to do with those changes. We can refer to it as often as we want, whenever we want to understand what is going on.

Reviewer: For version control purposes, it's better to keep multiple lines (one sentence per line) rather than a whole paragraph in a single line.
```suggestion
We can now start using one of the most important git commands, 
which is particularly helpful to beginners. 
In the screenshot below, in the `Source Control` window, is a blue button. 
It will show a different command depending on the status of our repository.
Under this button we will find what changes have been made in the repository
and the status of this change. 
The information here is updated as we make changes to our repository. 
We will see more examples of this later. 
For now, remember that this `Source Control` window tells us the status of our project, 
and better, a list of changes in the project and options on what to do with those changes. 
We can refer to it as often as we want, whenever we want to understand what is going on.
```
And add a new screenshot of the whole source control bar, that shows the whole left side of a vs code window, from the top menu till the bottom corner.

the outer repository will try to version-control
the inner repository. Therefore, it's best to create each new Git
repository in a separate directory. To be sure that there is no conflicting

> repository in the directory, check the output of `git status`.

Reviewer: This won't really work in here. There's a setting in VS Code, but we can show the message VS Code shows when trying to open a folder that belongs to a repository: 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c807f696-8ae8-45c6-8237-9bc7f32cfe14)
vs opening a folder without a parent repository:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/785581f9-9135-4b2d-afc4-146af5828d8d)

Remade those in your theme to keep them consistent.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::

## Correcting Initialize Repository Mistakes

> Alfredo has managed to create the `dessert` repository inside `recipes`. Jimmy explains to Alfredo how such a nested repository is redundant and may cause confusion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alfredo has managed to create the `dessert` repository inside `recipes`. 
Jimmy explains to Alfredo how such a nested repository is redundant and may cause confusion
```

Removing files from a Git repository needs to be done with caution. But we have not learned
yet how to tell Git to track a particular file; we will learn this in the next episode. Files

> that are not tracked by Git can easily be removed like any other "ordinary" files by deleting them in VSCode Explorer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that are not tracked by Git can easily be removed like any other "ordinary" files by deleting them in the system file browser.
```

> Similarly a directory can be removed in the same way in Explorer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly a directory can be removed in the same way in VSCode `Explorer` panel.
```

If the files or folder being removed in this fashion are tracked by Git, then their removal
becomes another change that we will need to track, as we will see in the next episode.

### Solution

Git keeps all of its files in the `.git` directory.
To recover from this little mistake, Alfredo can remove the `.git`
folder in the desserts subdirectory by deleting the `.git` directory.

But be careful! Running this command in the wrong directory will remove
the entire Git history of a project you might want to keep.

> Further, although the deleted files and directories might be in the Recycle bin which can be recovered, we should not rely on this. Also the "Undo" command in VSCode does not always work to revert a delete command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Further, although the deleted files and directories might be in the Recycle bin which can be recovered, 
we should not rely on this. 
Also the "Undo" command in VSCode does not always work to revert a deleted file or directory.
```
Into multiple lines. Also, does VSCode "sometimes" work to revert deleted files?
